References
[1] M. Abadi, A. Agarwal, P. Barham, E. Brevdo, Z. Chen, C. Citro, G. S. Corrado, A. Davis, J. Dean, M. Devin, S. Ghemawat, I. Goodfellow, A. Harp, G. Irving, M. Isard, Y. Jia, R. Jozefowicz, L. Kaiser, M. Kudlur, J. Levenberg, D. Mane,´ R. Monga, S. Moore, D. Murray, C. Olah, M. Schuster, J. Shlens, B. Steiner, I. Sutskever, K. Talwar, P. Tucker, V. Vanhoucke, V. Vasudevan, F. Viegas, O. Vinyals, P. War- ´ den, M. Wattenberg, M. Wicke, Y. Yu, and X. Zheng. TensorFlow: Large-scale machine learning on heterogeneous systems, 2015. Software available from tensorflow.org.
[2] W. Chen, J. T. Wilson, S. Tyree, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y. Chen. Compressing neural networks with the hashing trick. In Proceedings of The 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, 2015.
[3] C. Dong, C. C. Loy, K. He, and X. Tang. Learning a deep convolutional network for image super-resolution. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2014, pages 184–199. Springer, 2014.
[4] D. Erhan, C. Szegedy, A. Toshev, and D. Anguelov. Scalable object detection using deep neural networks. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2014 IEEE Conference on, pages 2155–2162. IEEE, 2014.
[5] R. Girshick, J. Donahue, T. Darrell, and J. Malik. Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2014.
[6] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Delving deep into rectifiers: Surpassing human-level performance on imagenet classification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.01852, 2015.
[7] S. Ioffe and C. Szegedy. Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift. In Proceedings of The 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 448–456, 2015.
[8] A. Karpathy, G. Toderici, S. Shetty, T. Leung, R. Sukthankar, and L. Fei-Fei. Large-scale video classification with convolutional neural networks. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2014 IEEE Conference on, pages 1725–1732. IEEE, 2014.
[9] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton. Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks. In Advances in neural information processing systems, pages 1097–1105, 2012.
[10] A. Lavin. Fast algorithms for convolutional neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.09308, 2015.
[11] C.-Y. Lee, S. Xie, P. Gallagher, Z. Zhang, and Z. Tu. Deeplysupervised nets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.5185, 2014.
[12] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell. Fully convolutional networks for semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3431–3440, 2015.
[13] Y. Movshovitz-Attias, Q. Yu, M. C. Stumpe, V. Shet, S. Arnoud, and L. Yatziv. Ontological supervision for fine grained classification of street view storefronts. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1693–1702, 2015.
[14] R. Pascanu, T. Mikolov, and Y. Bengio. On the difficulty of training recurrent neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1211.5063, 2012.
[15] D. C. Psichogios and L. H. Ungar. Svd-net: an algorithm that automatically selects network structure. IEEE transactions on neural networks/a publication of the IEEE Neural Networks Council, 5(3):513–515, 1993.
[16] O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, H. Su, J. Krause, S. Satheesh, S. Ma, Z. Huang, A. Karpathy, A. Khosla, M. Bernstein, et al. Imagenet large scale visual recognition challenge. 2014.
[17] F. Schroff, D. Kalenichenko, and J. Philbin. Facenet: A unified embedding for face recognition and clustering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.03832, 2015.
[18] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556, 2014.
[19] I. Sutskever, J. Martens, G. Dahl, and G. Hinton. On the importance of initialization and momentum in deep learning. In Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML-13), volume 28, pages 1139–1147. JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings, May 2013.
[20] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Rabinovich. Going deeper with convolutions. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1–9, 2015.
[21] T. Tieleman and G. Hinton. Divide the gradient by a running average of its recent magnitude. COURSERA: Neural Networks for Machine Learning, 4, 2012. Accessed: 2015- 11-05.
[22] A. Toshev and C. Szegedy. Deeppose: Human pose estimation via deep neural networks. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2014 IEEE Conference on, pages 1653–1660. IEEE, 2014.
[23] N. Wang and D.-Y. Yeung. Learning a deep compact image representation for visual tracking. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 809–817, 2013.
